---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "libvirt_network Resource - terraform-provider-libvirt"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Virtual network configuration
---

# libvirt_network (Resource)

Virtual network configuration



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Specifies the name of the network configuration.

### Optional

- `autostart` (Boolean) Whether the network should be started automatically when the host boots
- `bandwidth` (Attributes) Configures the bandwidth settings for the virtual network, specifying what limits are applied to data transport. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--bandwidth))
- `bridge` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--bridge))
- `dnsmasq_options` (String List) Appends <dnsmasq:options> to Network definition
- `dns` (Attributes) DNS configuration for the network (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dns))
- `domain` (Attributes) Configures the domain associated with the network. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--domain))
- `forward` (Attributes) Network forwarding mode configuration (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--forward))
- `ips` (Attributes List) IP address configuration for the network

See: <https://libvirt.org/formatnetwork.html#addressing> (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--ips))
- `ipv6` (String) Controls the usage of IPv6 in the network configuration.
- `mac` (Attributes) Sets the MAC configuration for the network. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--mac))
- `metadata` (Attributes) Provides additional metadata relevant to the network configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--metadata))
- `mtu` (Attributes) Sets the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) size for the network interface. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--mtu))
- `port_groups` (Attributes List) Configures port groups that define how guest connections are managed. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--port_groups))
- `port_options` (Attributes) Configures options for the network port, such as specific settings and parameters. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--port_options))
- `routes` (Attributes List) Configures static routes for the virtual network, enabling custom routing settings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--routes))
- `trust_guest_rx_filters` (String) Indicates whether to trust the guest's RX filters, affecting network traffic filtering.
- `virtual_port` (Attributes) Configures the virtual port associated with a port group. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_port))
- `vlan` (Attributes) Defines VLAN settings for the port group in the network configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--vlan))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) Network identifier (UUID)
- `uuid` (String) Sets a unique identifier for the virtual network, ensuring distinct identification.

<a id="nestedatt--bandwidth"></a>
### Nested Schema for `bandwidth`

Optional:

- `class_id` (Number) Sets the class identifier for the bandwidth configuration, categorizing the type of bandwidth used for the network.
- `inbound` (Attributes) Configures the settings for outbound bandwidth, controlling the data flow sent by the network. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--bandwidth--inbound))
- `outbound` (Attributes) Configures the settings for outbound bandwidth, controlling the data flow sent by the network. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--bandwidth--outbound))

<a id="nestedatt--bandwidth--inbound"></a>
### Nested Schema for `bandwidth.inbound`

Optional:

- `average` (Number) Sets the average allowable rate of outbound data for the network, providing a general performance baseline.
- `burst` (Number) Configures the maximum burst capacity of outbound data that can exceed the average rate temporarily.
- `floor` (Number) Specifies the minimum guaranteed rate for outbound data traffic, ensuring a baseline level of performance.
- `peak` (Number) Defines the upper limit for the peak rate of outbound data, controlling spikes in network usage.


<a id="nestedatt--bandwidth--outbound"></a>
### Nested Schema for `bandwidth.outbound`

Optional:

- `average` (Number) Sets the average allowable rate of outbound data for the network, providing a general performance baseline.
- `burst` (Number) Configures the maximum burst capacity of outbound data that can exceed the average rate temporarily.
- `floor` (Number) Specifies the minimum guaranteed rate for outbound data traffic, ensuring a baseline level of performance.
- `peak` (Number) Defines the upper limit for the peak rate of outbound data, controlling spikes in network usage.



<a id="nestedatt--bridge"></a>
### Nested Schema for `bridge`

Optional:

- `delay` (String) Sets the delay for bridge network operations, affecting how quickly packets are processed.
- `mac_table_manager` (String) Configures how MAC addresses are managed within the bridge, influencing how traffic is controlled.
- `name` (String) Bridge name (generated by libvirt if not specified)
- `stp` (String) Configures Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) for the bridge, controlling the avoidance of loops in the network.
- `zone` (String) Sets the zone attribute for the bridge, categorizing it within defined networking scopes.


<a id="nestedatt--dns"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dns`

Optional:

- `enable` (String) Sets whether DNS features are enabled for the network, allowing the network to resolve domain names.
- `forward_plain_names` (String) Configures the option to forward plain names in DNS resolution, affecting how traffic is managed for unqualified names.
- `forwarders` (Attributes List) Specifies the DNS forwarders for the network, indicating external servers that handle DNS queries. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dns--forwarders))
- `host` (Attributes List) Defines the host settings for DNS within the virtual network, controlling how local hostnames are resolved. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dns--host))
- `sr_vs` (Attributes List) Configures the SRV records for the DNS entries. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dns--sr_vs))
- `tx_ts` (Attributes List) Configures TXT records for DNS entries. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dns--tx_ts))

<a id="nestedatt--dns--forwarders"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dns.forwarders`

Optional:

- `addr` (String) Sets the address for each DNS forwarder, defining where to direct DNS queries.
- `domain` (String) Configures the domain associated with each DNS forwarder, specifying the context for resolution.


<a id="nestedatt--dns--host"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dns.host`

Required:

- `ip` (String) Sets the IP address of the host for DNS resolution.

Optional:

- `hostnames` (Attributes List) Configures the hostname settings for DNS, specifying how hosts within the network are identified. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dns--host--hostnames))

<a id="nestedatt--dns--host--hostnames"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dns.host.hostnames`

Required:

- `hostname` (String) Sets the value of each hostname in the DNS configuration, allowing for individual identification.



<a id="nestedatt--dns--sr_vs"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dns.sr_vs`

Optional:

- `domain` (String) Defines the domain name used for the SRV record.
- `port` (Number) Specifies the port number associated with the SRV record.
- `priority` (Number) Sets the priority of the SRV record, influencing the selection order for clients.
- `protocol` (String) Defines the protocol (e.g., TCP or UDP) used for the SRV record.
- `service` (String) Specifies the service name associated with the SRV record.
- `target` (String) Indicates the target host name to contact for the specified service.
- `weight` (Number) Sets the weight for load balancing among SRV records.


<a id="nestedatt--dns--tx_ts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dns.tx_ts`

Required:

- `name` (String) Specifies the name for the TXT record.
- `value` (String) Sets the value associated with the TXT record.



<a id="nestedatt--domain"></a>
### Nested Schema for `domain`

Optional:

- `local_only` (String) Sets whether the domain is local only, preventing it from being accessible externally.
- `name` (String) Specifies the name of the domain within the network configuration.


<a id="nestedatt--forward"></a>
### Nested Schema for `forward`

Optional:

- `addresses` (Attributes List) Defines the addresses to which traffic should be forwarded. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--forward--addresses))
- `dev` (String) Sets the specific device for the forwarding configuration.
- `driver` (Attributes) Configures the driver used for the network forwarding. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--forward--driver))
- `interfaces` (Attributes List) Defines the interfaces to be used for forwarding. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--forward--interfaces))
- `managed` (Boolean) Indicates whether the forwarding configuration is managed by libvirt.
- `mode` (String) Configures the mode of operation for the network forwarding.
- `nat` (Attributes) Enables or disables NAT (Network Address Translation) for the forwarding configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--forward--nat))
- `pfs` (Attributes List) Configures per-packet forwarding service, enabling a fine-tuned forwarding operation. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--forward--pfs))

<a id="nestedatt--forward--addresses"></a>
### Nested Schema for `forward.addresses`

Optional:

- `pci` (Attributes) Configures forwarding for PCI addresses. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--forward--addresses--pci))

<a id="nestedatt--forward--addresses--pci"></a>
### Nested Schema for `forward.addresses.pci`

Optional:

- `bus` (Number) Specifies the bus number for the PCI forwarding address.
- `domain` (Number) Sets the domain ID for the PCI forwarding address.
- `function` (Number) Defines the function number for the PCI forwarding address.
- `slot` (Number) Specifies the slot number for the PCI forwarding address.



<a id="nestedatt--forward--driver"></a>
### Nested Schema for `forward.driver`

Optional:

- `model` (String) Specifies the model of the forwarding driver.
- `name` (String) Sets the name of the forwarding driver.


<a id="nestedatt--forward--interfaces"></a>
### Nested Schema for `forward.interfaces`

Optional:

- `dev` (String) Specifies the device for the forwarding interface.


<a id="nestedatt--forward--nat"></a>
### Nested Schema for `forward.nat`

Optional:

- `addresses` (Attributes List) Defines the addresses for NAT configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--forward--nat--addresses))
- `ipv6` (String) Configures whether IPv6 is used for NAT in the forwarding settings.
- `ports` (Attributes List) Defines the ports to be used in NAT configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--forward--nat--ports))

<a id="nestedatt--forward--nat--addresses"></a>
### Nested Schema for `forward.nat.addresses`

Required:

- `end` (String) Sets the ending address for the NAT range.
- `start` (String) Specifies the starting address for the NAT range.


<a id="nestedatt--forward--nat--ports"></a>
### Nested Schema for `forward.nat.ports`

Required:

- `end` (Number) Sets the ending port number for the NAT port range.
- `start` (Number) Specifies the starting port number for the NAT port range.



<a id="nestedatt--forward--pfs"></a>
### Nested Schema for `forward.pfs`

Required:

- `dev` (String) Specifies the device to be used for per-packet forwarding service.



<a id="nestedatt--ips"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ips`

Optional:

- `address` (String) Sets the specific IP address for the associated configuration.
- `dhcp` (Attributes) Enables and configures DHCP settings for the network. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--ips--dhcp))
- `family` (String) Determines the IP family (IPv4 or IPv6) for the network configuration.
- `local_ptr` (String) Configures the local pointer for the IP address, used in DNS resolution.
- `netmask` (String) Specifies the subnet mask for the IP address configuration.
- `prefix` (Number) Sets the prefix length for CIDR notation in the network's IP configuration.
- `tftp` (Attributes) Configures TFTP settings for the network. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--ips--tftp))

<a id="nestedatt--ips--dhcp"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ips.dhcp`

Optional:

- `bootp` (Attributes List) Configures BOOTP settings for the DHCP configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--ips--dhcp--bootp))
- `hosts` (Attributes List) Configures host entries for DHCP clients within the network. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--ips--dhcp--hosts))
- `ranges` (Attributes List) Represents the DHCP range for IP addresses to be allocated. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--ips--dhcp--ranges))

<a id="nestedatt--ips--dhcp--bootp"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ips.dhcp.bootp`

Optional:

- `file` (String) Specifies a file used for BOOTP configurations.
- `server` (String) Sets the server address for the BOOTP configuration.


<a id="nestedatt--ips--dhcp--hosts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ips.dhcp.hosts`

Optional:

- `ip` (String) Sets the IP address for a DHCP host entry.
- `lease` (Attributes) Configures lease settings for DHCP host entries. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--ips--dhcp--hosts--lease))
- `mac` (String) Specifies the MAC address of the DHCP host.
- `name` (String) Defines the name for the DHCP host entry.

Read-Only:

- `id` (String) Specifies the unique identifier for a DHCP host entry.

<a id="nestedatt--ips--dhcp--hosts--lease"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ips.dhcp.hosts.lease`

Required:

- `expiry` (Number) Configures the expiration time of the DHCP lease for a host.

Optional:

- `unit` (String) Sets the unit of time for the lease expiry, such as seconds or minutes.



<a id="nestedatt--ips--dhcp--ranges"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ips.dhcp.ranges`

Optional:

- `end` (String) Sets the end IP address of the DHCP allocation range.
- `lease` (Attributes) Configures lease settings for DHCP host entries. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--ips--dhcp--ranges--lease))
- `start` (String) Sets the start IP address of the DHCP allocation range.

<a id="nestedatt--ips--dhcp--ranges--lease"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ips.dhcp.ranges.lease`

Required:

- `expiry` (Number) Configures the expiration time of the DHCP lease for a host.

Optional:

- `unit` (String) Sets the unit of time for the lease expiry, such as seconds or minutes.




<a id="nestedatt--ips--tftp"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ips.tftp`

Optional:

- `root` (String) Defines the root directory for TFTP services provided by the network.



<a id="nestedatt--mac"></a>
### Nested Schema for `mac`

Optional:

- `address` (String) Specifies the actual MAC address associated with the network.


<a id="nestedatt--metadata"></a>
### Nested Schema for `metadata`

Required:

- `xml` (String) Configures XML-based metadata for the network.


<a id="nestedatt--mtu"></a>
### Nested Schema for `mtu`

Required:

- `size` (Number) Defines the specific size of the MTU for network communication.


<a id="nestedatt--port_groups"></a>
### Nested Schema for `port_groups`

Optional:

- `default` (String) Indicates the default status of the port group.
- `name` (String) Sets the name for the specified port group within the network.
- `trust_guest_rx_filters` (String) Controls whether to trust incoming packets based on guest-defined filters.
- `virtual_port` (Attributes) Configures the virtual port associated with a port group. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--port_groups--virtual_port))
- `vlan` (Attributes) Defines VLAN settings for the port group in the network configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--port_groups--vlan))

<a id="nestedatt--port_groups--virtual_port"></a>
### Nested Schema for `port_groups.virtual_port`

Optional:

- `params` (Attributes) Defines parameters for the virtual port in the port group. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--port_groups--virtual_port--params))

<a id="nestedatt--port_groups--virtual_port--params"></a>
### Nested Schema for `port_groups.virtual_port.params`

Optional:

- `any` (Attributes) Specifies any parameters applicable to the virtual port configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--port_groups--virtual_port--params--any))
- `mido_net` (Attributes) Configures parameters for MidoNet-related virtual ports. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--port_groups--virtual_port--params--mido_net))
- `open_v_switch` (Attributes) Defines parameters for Open vSwitch-related virtual ports. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--port_groups--virtual_port--params--open_v_switch))
- `vepa8021qbg` (Attributes) Configures parameters for VEPA 802.1Qbg-related virtual ports. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--port_groups--virtual_port--params--vepa8021qbg))
- `vn_tag8011qbh` (Attributes) Configures parameters for VNTag 8011QBH-related virtual ports. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--port_groups--virtual_port--params--vn_tag8011qbh))

<a id="nestedatt--port_groups--virtual_port--params--any"></a>
### Nested Schema for `port_groups.virtual_port.params.any`

Optional:

- `instance_id` (String) Sets the instance ID for the virtual port parameter.
- `interface_id` (String) Defines the interface ID for the virtual port parameter.
- `manager_id` (Number) Configures the manager ID associated with the virtual port parameter.
- `profile_id` (String) Specifies the profile ID for the virtual port parameter.
- `type_id` (Number) Sets the type ID for the virtual port parameter.
- `type_id_version` (Number) Indicates the version of the type ID for the virtual port parameter.


<a id="nestedatt--port_groups--virtual_port--params--mido_net"></a>
### Nested Schema for `port_groups.virtual_port.params.mido_net`

Optional:

- `interface_id` (String) Specifies the interface ID for MidoNet virtual port parameters.


<a id="nestedatt--port_groups--virtual_port--params--open_v_switch"></a>
### Nested Schema for `port_groups.virtual_port.params.open_v_switch`

Optional:

- `interface_id` (String) Sets the interface ID for Open vSwitch virtual port parameters.
- `profile_id` (String) Specifies the profile ID for Open vSwitch virtual port parameters.


<a id="nestedatt--port_groups--virtual_port--params--vepa8021qbg"></a>
### Nested Schema for `port_groups.virtual_port.params.vepa8021qbg`

Optional:

- `instance_id` (String) Sets the instance ID for VEPA 802.1Qbg virtual port parameters.
- `manager_id` (Number) Configures the manager ID associated with VEPA 802.1Qbg parameters.
- `type_id` (Number) Specifies the type ID for VEPA 802.1Qbg virtual port parameters.
- `type_id_version` (Number) Indicates the version of the type ID for VEPA 802.1Qbg parameters.


<a id="nestedatt--port_groups--virtual_port--params--vn_tag8011qbh"></a>
### Nested Schema for `port_groups.virtual_port.params.vn_tag8011qbh`

Optional:

- `profile_id` (String) Specifies the profile ID for VNTag 8011QBH virtual port parameters.




<a id="nestedatt--port_groups--vlan"></a>
### Nested Schema for `port_groups.vlan`

Optional:

- `tags` (Attributes List) Configures a VLAN tag group for the specified network port group. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--port_groups--vlan--tags))
- `trunk` (String) Controls whether the VLAN tag allows trunking for the network port group.

<a id="nestedatt--port_groups--vlan--tags"></a>
### Nested Schema for `port_groups.vlan.tags`

Optional:

- `native_mode` (String) Indicates whether the VLAN tag operates in native mode for the port group.

Read-Only:

- `id` (Number) Sets the identifier for the VLAN tag within the port group.




<a id="nestedatt--port_options"></a>
### Nested Schema for `port_options`

Optional:

- `isolated` (String) Specifies whether the network port is isolated, preventing traffic flow from other ports.


<a id="nestedatt--routes"></a>
### Nested Schema for `routes`

Optional:

- `address` (String) Sets the address for the static route in the network configuration.
- `family` (String) Defines the address family (IPv4 or IPv6) to be used for the static route.
- `gateway` (String) Specifies the gateway address to use for the static route.
- `metric` (String) Sets the metric value for the static route, influencing route selection.
- `netmask` (String) Configures the netmask for the static route address.
- `prefix` (Number) Defines the prefix length for the static route, particularly for IPv6 addresses.


<a id="nestedatt--virtual_port"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_port`

Optional:

- `params` (Attributes) Defines parameters for the virtual port in the port group. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_port--params))

<a id="nestedatt--virtual_port--params"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_port.params`

Optional:

- `any` (Attributes) Specifies any parameters applicable to the virtual port configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_port--params--any))
- `mido_net` (Attributes) Configures parameters for MidoNet-related virtual ports. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_port--params--mido_net))
- `open_v_switch` (Attributes) Defines parameters for Open vSwitch-related virtual ports. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_port--params--open_v_switch))
- `vepa8021qbg` (Attributes) Configures parameters for VEPA 802.1Qbg-related virtual ports. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_port--params--vepa8021qbg))
- `vn_tag8011qbh` (Attributes) Configures parameters for VNTag 8011QBH-related virtual ports. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_port--params--vn_tag8011qbh))

<a id="nestedatt--virtual_port--params--any"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_port.params.any`

Optional:

- `instance_id` (String) Sets the instance ID for the virtual port parameter.
- `interface_id` (String) Defines the interface ID for the virtual port parameter.
- `manager_id` (Number) Configures the manager ID associated with the virtual port parameter.
- `profile_id` (String) Specifies the profile ID for the virtual port parameter.
- `type_id` (Number) Sets the type ID for the virtual port parameter.
- `type_id_version` (Number) Indicates the version of the type ID for the virtual port parameter.


<a id="nestedatt--virtual_port--params--mido_net"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_port.params.mido_net`

Optional:

- `interface_id` (String) Specifies the interface ID for MidoNet virtual port parameters.


<a id="nestedatt--virtual_port--params--open_v_switch"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_port.params.open_v_switch`

Optional:

- `interface_id` (String) Sets the interface ID for Open vSwitch virtual port parameters.
- `profile_id` (String) Specifies the profile ID for Open vSwitch virtual port parameters.


<a id="nestedatt--virtual_port--params--vepa8021qbg"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_port.params.vepa8021qbg`

Optional:

- `instance_id` (String) Sets the instance ID for VEPA 802.1Qbg virtual port parameters.
- `manager_id` (Number) Configures the manager ID associated with VEPA 802.1Qbg parameters.
- `type_id` (Number) Specifies the type ID for VEPA 802.1Qbg virtual port parameters.
- `type_id_version` (Number) Indicates the version of the type ID for VEPA 802.1Qbg parameters.


<a id="nestedatt--virtual_port--params--vn_tag8011qbh"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_port.params.vn_tag8011qbh`

Optional:

- `profile_id` (String) Specifies the profile ID for VNTag 8011QBH virtual port parameters.




<a id="nestedatt--vlan"></a>
### Nested Schema for `vlan`

Optional:

- `tags` (Attributes List) Configures a VLAN tag group for the specified network port group. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--vlan--tags))
- `trunk` (String) Controls whether the VLAN tag allows trunking for the network port group.

<a id="nestedatt--vlan--tags"></a>
### Nested Schema for `vlan.tags`

Optional:

- `native_mode` (String) Indicates whether the VLAN tag operates in native mode for the port group.

Read-Only:

- `id` (Number) Sets the identifier for the VLAN tag within the port group.
