---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "libvirt_pool Resource - terraform-provider-libvirt"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Storage pool for managing storage volumes
---

# libvirt_pool (Resource)

Storage pool for managing storage volumes



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Sets the unique name for the storage pool, required for identification on the host.
- `type` (String) Specifies the type of the storage pool being defined.

### Optional

- `allocation_unit` (String) Specifies the unit type for the pool's allocated storage, defining measurement standards.
- `available_unit` (String) Sets the unit type for measuring available storage within the pool.
- `capacity_unit` (String) Specifies the unit type for measuring the total capacity of the storage pool.
- `features` (Attributes) Defines optional features supported by the storage pool, enhancing functional capabilities. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--features))
- `refresh` (Attributes) Controls the refresh behavior of the storage pool and associated volumes. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--refresh))
- `source` (Attributes) Source location for the storage pool (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source))
- `target` (Attributes) Target path and permissions for the storage pool (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--target))

### Read-Only

- `allocation` (Number) Configures the amount of storage allocated to the pool, determining capacity usage.
- `available` (Number) Indicates the amount of available storage within the pool for new allocations.
- `capacity` (Number) Configures the total capacity of the storage pool, defining its maximum size.
- `id` (String) Pool UUID (same as uuid)
- `uuid` (String) Sets the universally unique identifier for the storage pool.

<a id="nestedatt--features"></a>
### Nested Schema for `features`

Optional:

- `cow` (Attributes) Indicates whether copy-on-write (COW) is enabled for the storage pool's images. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--features--cow))

<a id="nestedatt--features--cow"></a>
### Nested Schema for `features.cow`

Required:

- `state` (String) Configures the state of the copy-on-write feature within the storage pool.



<a id="nestedatt--refresh"></a>
### Nested Schema for `refresh`

Optional:

- `volume` (Attributes) Configures the refresh settings for individual volumes within the storage pool. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--refresh--volume))

<a id="nestedatt--refresh--volume"></a>
### Nested Schema for `refresh.volume`

Required:

- `allocation` (String) Defines how allocation amounts are calculated during the refresh operation for the volume.



<a id="nestedatt--source"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source`

Optional:

- `adapter` (Attributes) Configures the details of the adapter used for connecting to the storage source. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source--adapter))
- `auth` (Attributes) Specifies the authentication method used when connecting to the storage source. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source--auth))
- `device` (Attributes List) Specifies the device to be used as the source for the storage pool. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source--device))
- `dir` (Attributes) Indicates the directory used as a source for the storage pool. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source--dir))
- `format` (Attributes) Sets the format of the storage source being used, affecting how data is stored and accessed. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source--format))
- `host` (Attributes List) Specifies the host details for connecting to the storage source. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source--host))
- `initiator` (Attributes) Defines the iSCSI initiator settings associated with the storage source. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source--initiator))
- `name` (String) Specifies the name of the source for the storage pool.
- `product` (Attributes) Identifies the product details associated with the storage source. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source--product))
- `protocol` (Attributes) Sets the protocol used to connect to the storage source. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source--protocol))
- `vendor` (Attributes) Specifies the vendor information for the storage source being used. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source--vendor))

<a id="nestedatt--source--adapter"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source.adapter`

Optional:

- `managed` (Boolean) Indicates whether the adapter is managed by the virtualization framework.
- `name` (String) Sets the name of the adapter for identification purposes.
- `parent` (String) Specifies the parent identifier of the adapter if applicable, linking it to a higher-level entity.
- `parent_addr` (Attributes) Provides the address details of the adapter's parent device. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source--adapter--parent_addr))
- `type` (String) Sets the type of the adapter being used for the storage source connection.
- `wwnn` (String) Defines the World Wide Name for the node of the adapter used in the storage source context.
- `wwpn` (String) Configures the World Wide Name for the portal of the adapter connected to the storage source.

<a id="nestedatt--source--adapter--parent_addr"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source.adapter.parent_addr`

Required:

- `unique_id` (Number) Provides a unique identifier for the address of the parent adapter.

Optional:

- `address` (Attributes) Configures the address information related to the parent device of the adapter. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source--adapter--parent_addr--address))

<a id="nestedatt--source--adapter--parent_addr--address"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source.adapter.parent_addr.address`

Optional:

- `bus` (Number) Specifies the bus identifier for the parent address.
- `domain` (Number) Defines the domain associated with the parent address of the adapter.
- `function` (Number) Configures the function field for the address of the adapter's parent device.
- `slot` (Number) Indicates the slot number for the adapter's parent address.




<a id="nestedatt--source--auth"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source.auth`

Required:

- `type` (String) Configures the type of authentication mechanism to be used on the storage source connection.
- `username` (String) Sets the username for authenticating access to the storage source.

Optional:

- `secret` (Attributes) Defines the secret used for authenticated access to the storage source. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source--auth--secret))

<a id="nestedatt--source--auth--secret"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source.auth.secret`

Optional:

- `usage` (String) Indicates the intended usage for the authentication secret.

Read-Only:

- `uuid` (String) Sets the UUID for the authentication secret tied to the storage source connection.



<a id="nestedatt--source--device"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source.device`

Required:

- `path` (String) Specifies the physical path to the device used as the source for the storage pool.

Optional:

- `free_extents` (Attributes List) Controls the free extents available for allocation within the source device. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source--device--free_extents))
- `part_separator` (String) Configures the separator character used for partitioning in the device path.

<a id="nestedatt--source--device--free_extents"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source.device.free_extents`

Required:

- `end` (Number) Indicates the end value for the free extents available in the source device.
- `start` (Number) Defines the starting point for the free extents in the source device.



<a id="nestedatt--source--dir"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source.dir`

Required:

- `path` (String) Provides the path to the directory that serves as a source for the storage pool.


<a id="nestedatt--source--format"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source.format`

Required:

- `type` (String) Defines the specific type of format for the storage source.


<a id="nestedatt--source--host"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source.host`

Required:

- `name` (String) Sets the name of the host where the storage source is located.

Optional:

- `port` (String) Configures the port number to be used for connecting to the storage source on the host.


<a id="nestedatt--source--initiator"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source.initiator`

Optional:

- `iqn` (Attributes) Configures the iSCSI Qualified Name (IQN) for the initiator connecting to the storage source. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source--initiator--iqn))

<a id="nestedatt--source--initiator--iqn"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source.initiator.iqn`

Optional:

- `name` (String) Sets the name attribute of the iSCSI IQN for identification.



<a id="nestedatt--source--product"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source.product`

Required:

- `name` (String) Configures the name attribute of the product related to the storage source.


<a id="nestedatt--source--protocol"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source.protocol`

Required:

- `version` (String) Indicates the version of the protocol being used for the connection.


<a id="nestedatt--source--vendor"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source.vendor`

Required:

- `name` (String) Configures the name attribute for the vendor related to the storage source.



<a id="nestedatt--target"></a>
### Nested Schema for `target`

Optional:

- `encryption` (Attributes) Configures the encryption settings for the storage volume. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--target--encryption))
- `path` (String) Defines the path in the host filesystem where the storage pool is mapped.
- `permissions` (Attributes) Configures the permissions for the storage pool target. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--target--permissions))
- `timestamps` (Attributes) Sets the timestamp attributes for the storage pool target. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--target--timestamps))

<a id="nestedatt--target--encryption"></a>
### Nested Schema for `target.encryption`

Required:

- `format` (String) Defines the format of the encryption for the storage volume.

Optional:

- `cipher` (Attributes) Sets the encryption cipher for the storage volume to be applied. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--target--encryption--cipher))
- `ivgen` (Attributes) Controls the initialization vector generation settings for the encryption. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--target--encryption--ivgen))
- `secret` (Attributes) Provides the configuration for the secret used in the encryption process. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--target--encryption--secret))

<a id="nestedatt--target--encryption--cipher"></a>
### Nested Schema for `target.encryption.cipher`

Required:

- `hash` (String) Specifies the hash algorithm used with the encryption cipher.
- `mode` (String) Defines the mode for the encryption cipher of the storage volume.
- `name` (String) Sets the name of the encryption cipher for the storage volume.
- `size` (Number) Sets the size of the encryption cipher for the storage volume.


<a id="nestedatt--target--encryption--ivgen"></a>
### Nested Schema for `target.encryption.ivgen`

Required:

- `hash` (String) Specifies the hashing algorithm used for the initialization vector generation.
- `name` (String) Sets the name of the initialization vector generator for the encryption.


<a id="nestedatt--target--encryption--secret"></a>
### Nested Schema for `target.encryption.secret`

Required:

- `type` (String) Defines the type of the secret used for encryption purposes.

Read-Only:

- `uuid` (String) Sets the universally unique identifier (UUID) for the encryption secret.



<a id="nestedatt--target--permissions"></a>
### Nested Schema for `target.permissions`

Optional:

- `group` (String) Sets the group ownership for the storage pool target permissions.
- `label` (String) Configures the label associated with the target permissions for the storage pool.
- `mode` (String) Defines the mode (file permissions) for the storage pool target.
- `owner` (String) Specifies the owner of the permissions for the storage pool target.


<a id="nestedatt--target--timestamps"></a>
### Nested Schema for `target.timestamps`

Required:

- `atime` (String) Configures the last access time for the storage pool target.
- `ctime` (String) Sets the last metadata change time for the storage pool target.
- `mtime` (String) Specifies the last modification time for the storage pool target.
